Add documentation for AEMET OpenData integration (#16173)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/aemet.markdown

---
title: AEMET OpenData
description: Instructions on how to integrate AEMET OpenData within Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2021.3
ha_category:
  - Weather
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@noltari'
ha_domain: aemet
---

The AEMET weather platform uses [AEMET OpenData](https://opendata.aemet.es/) as a source for current meteorological data for your location. AEMET stands for "Agencia Estatal de Meteorología", which is the Spanish Meteorological Agency.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- Sensor
- Weather

You need an API key, which is free but requires a [registration](https://opendata.aemet.es/centrodedescargas/altaUsuario).
The AEMET OpenData service is completely free but is limited to the Spanish territory.

## Configuration

To add AEMET OpenData integration go to **Configuration** >> **Integrations** and find the integration in the list.

> | Parameter | Value                                     |
> | :-------- | :---------------------------------------- |
> | api_key   | API Key from the website                  |
> | name      | Name of the integration                   |
> | latitude  | Latitude for weather forecast and sensor  |
> | longitude | Longitude for weather forecast and sensor |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% configuration_basic %}
API Key:
  description: "API Key from the website"
Name:
  description: "Name of the integration"
Latitude:
  description: "Latitude for weather forecast and sensor"
Longitude:
  description: "Longitude for weather forecast and sensor".
{% configuration_basic %}
```

---
title: AEMET OpenData
description: Instructions on how to integrate AEMET OpenData within Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2021.3
ha_category:
  - Weather
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@noltari'
ha_domain: aemet
---

> The `aemet` weather platform uses [AEMET OpenData](https://opendata.aemet.es/) as a source for current meteorological data for your location. AEMET stands for `Agencia Estatal de Meteorología`, which is the Spanish Meteorological Agency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AEMET weather platform uses [AEMET OpenData](https://opendata.aemet.es/) as a source for current meteorological data for your location. AEMET stands for "Agencia Estatal de Meteorología", which is the Spanish Meteorological Agency.
```

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- Sensor
- Weather

> You need an API key, which is free, but requires a [registration](https://opendata.aemet.es/centrodedescargas/altaUsuario).
> The AEMET OpenData service is completely free, but is limited to the Spanish territory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need an API key, which is free but requires a [registration](https://opendata.aemet.es/centrodedescargas/altaUsuario).
The AEMET OpenData service is completely free but is limited to the Spanish territory.
```

| :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| API Key              | API Key from the website                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Name                 | Name of the integration                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Latitude             | Latitude for weather forecast and sensor                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | Longitude            | Longitude for weather forecast and sensor                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: Use `%{ config_basic %}` for this instead.

The integration creates one weather entity per forecast mode and also sensors for all available conditions. There are two forecast modes, `daily` for daily forecast up to 6 days or `hourly` for an hourly forecast up to 3 days.

> For each condition a `sensor` entity will be created with id:
> 
> `sensor.<integration name>_<monitored condition>`
> 
> All conditions:

Reviewer: The `entity_id` is not guaranteed, we should therefore not list it as such.

```suggestion
For each condition, the following sensors are created:
```

| Condition             | Description                          |
| :-------------------- | :----------------------------------- | 

> | `condition`           | Current weather condition code.      |

Reviewer: Let's use normal names for the conditions.

---
title: AEMET OpenData
description: Instructions on how to integrate AEMET OpenData within Home Assistant.

> ha_release: 2021.2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2021.3
```

| API Key              | API Key from the website                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Name                 | Name of the integration                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Latitude             | Latitude for weather forecast and sensor                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Longitude            | Longitude for weather forecast and sensor                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | Mode                 | Forecast mode, `daily` for daily forecast up to 6 days or `hourly` for an hourly forecast up to 3 days. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The integration creates weather entity and also sensors for all available conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The integration creates one weather entity per forecast mode and also sensors for all available conditions. There are two forecast modes, `daily` for daily forecast up to 6 days or `hourly` for an hourly forecast up to 3 days.
```

> For each condition `sensor` entity will be created with id: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each condition a `sensor` entity will be created with id: 
```
